[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Daníel Colón is with us, a
conscious content creator
and multidisciplinary
artist whose work dives deep
into astrology, tarot,
the law of attraction,
and the journey of
spiritual awakening.
He's also exploring the
synergy between spirituality,
creativity, and the
transformative power
of psychedelics.
What a character
resume you have.
My god, where did you
get all those titles?
>> DANÍEL COLÓN: I
mean, you know, I--
it's interesting anytime I
have to introduce myself.
It's hard for me to
just pick one thing.
I love the self in many ways
in which we can tap into self.
So yeah, thank you.
That was quite a mouthful.
You just had to deliver that.
>> NOORY: Absolutely.
Daníel, did you learn all of
this in your homeland of Puerto
Rico?
>> COLÓN: No-- well, I've
learned some of it in Puerto
Rico.
It's definitely cultural
in so many ways.
Growing up, watching
Walter Mercado
on television, who
is an astrologer, so
famous in the Latino culture.
And seeing him
cuddled up in front
of my TV ready to learn
about my horoscope definitely
had profound impact
in my spiritual life
and understanding
myself as a creator.
But yeah, a lot
of this deep dive
really happened in New York
City when I lived there
for like 10 years.
>> NOORY: What happened?
Explain that.
>> COLÓN: I was there for 10
years and it happened right
after I actually totaled
my car completely.
I lived in Florida at the
time when that happened.
Basically, it was a
pretty major car accident.
I was at a moment in my
life where I really didn't
know what I wanted to do.
I called up my brother who
lived in New York City.
He said, come on
over, just try it out.
And I stayed there for 10 years.
And that was one of the most
transformative experiences
of my life.
Being in a city with
so many cultures,
so many beliefs,
so many practices.
And it really laid
the foundation
for a lot of who I am today.
>> NOORY: Is that where you
had your spiritual awakening?
>> COLÓN: There are so many
spiritual awakenings in my life
and anybody's life.
There's not one pinnacle
moment, I think.
I think we're always in
the process of awakening,
but definitely some major
moments in New York City,
including the pandemic,
which so many of us
experienced some amazing
contrast during that time.
It was such a moment
of transformation.
>> NOORY: It almost changed
the face of the planet.
>> COLÓN: I mean, it has.
It still is transforming
the face of this planet
and definitely transforming the
way in which we connect with one
another and our values and
how we support ourselves
through that.
>> NOORY: I remember going to a
local restaurant in Saint Louis
and they wouldn't
let anybody inside.
So in December,
January of 2020, we're
sitting outside with heaters
on and nobody around.
There was no
connection with people.
It was horrible.
>> COLÓN: It was horrible.
But for me, it was just--
it was a blessing.
They told me to stay inside
and I was like, cool,
I'm going to stay inside.
I'm going to do the work.
I'm going to sit with
myself and explore
what it is that I actually
want to do in this life.
Before that, I was
managing restaurants,
I was trying to become
an actor, I had an agent.
And none of that was
really working for me.
So I took that sign
from the universe,
and I said, well, what
can I do with this moment?
How can I create
opportunity from this?
And now I'm sitting, having
a conversation with you.
So it's like something worked.
>> NOORY: You tied in
spirituality, creativity,
psychedelics.
How do all those three mix?
>> COLÓN: Well, during my
experience in the pandemic,
I was alone and I was engaging
on some solo trips where I was
sitting with myself, sitting
with some of those pain points
that I had.
And I feel like
mushroom medicine,
psychedelic medicine is
inherently spiritual because it
connects you to yourself.
>> NOORY: You're
talking about mushrooms?
>> COLÓN: Yeah, mostly
mushrooms for me.
I love the earth.
And if it comes from the
earth and it's medicinal,
I'm like all about it.
And there's something
maternal about mushrooms,
I think, connects us
to our love centers.
It connects us to empathy and
it connects us to ourselves.
And that connection, that to
me is what spirituality is.
>> NOORY: Does it make
you more creative, too?
>> COLÓN: Absolutely.
If you're open to it, if that's
what you want to use it for.
There's something very freeing
about psychedelic medicine.
I remember my first
ever mushroom ceremony,
which was like 12
years ago, I finally
gave myself permission to
create and be a creator,
to just make mistakes.
I had a canvas in front of me
and I started doodling on it.
And four hours later,
there was what I thought
was a masterpiece from it.
And there was no voice
of judgment telling me
I should paint this
way or paint that way.
Mistakes arose, and
I dealt with them
lovingly and compassionately.
And that freedom in the
creative process, I think,
is something that
we need right now.
>> NOORY: How do you know what
kind of mushrooms to ingest?
Because it's dangerous if
you're doing the wrong thing.
>> COLÓN: Absolutely.
If you're doing the wrong
thing, it can be dangerous.
Test your substances, for sure.
If you're engaging
with it, know where
you're getting it from, sourcing
it from the right place.
>> NOORY: Are they legal?
>> COLÓN: They're not.
They're not legal.
>> NOORY: Oh.
>> COLÓN: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Wait a minute, Daníel.
>> COLÓN: I'm not telling
you go do it on your own,
and you'll be changed forever.
I will say, although
it's not legal right now,
the stigma behind it is
definitely changing here
in the United States.
It is legalized in Canada.
There's lots of places
abroad that you can
take these substances legally.
But I'm optimistic
about the United States
and how this is going to
change the culture here.
But yeah, it's not legal
at your own risk for sure.
Having it in your possession,
there could be a problem there.
But--
>> NOORY: Be aware
of that, folks.
Be aware of that.
>> COLÓN: Absolutely.
Do your research on--
>> NOORY: But what
about your health?
Can it hurt you?
>> COLÓN: There's been lots
of studies about psychedelics,
and it's actually helping
so many people with PTSD,
anxiety disorders, depression.
I mean, the research
out there is amazing.
So I consider it to
be a safe practice
so long as you're
taking care of yourself,
you're in the right set
and setting in your mind,
in your environment.
I wouldn't recommend
engaging with this stuff
in some chaotic
environments, for sure.
Consult your doctor,
know where you're at,
know how you feel,
and do your research.
Do your research,
do your research.
That's one of the biggest
things with psychedelics.
Do your research.
>> NOORY: You made a small
video clip that went viral about
the intensity of the
spiritual experience.
Let's take a look at it.
>> Grab my hand.
Grab my hand.
Now, we wait.
We wait for that, but
now, now, now we go.
Keep holding my hand.
Keep moving.
Keep your feet--
why is your hand--
>> NOORY: What was
that all about?
>> COLÓN: My goodness.
It's so crazy.
That feels like so long ago.
But it was the
first viral moment--
>> NOORY: Was that you?
>> COLÓN: That was me.
That was absolutely me.
That was happening
during a time where
we hear about
spiritual awakening
and even spirituality
in general,
and it sounds like this super
transcendent space to be in.
And it's great, it is.
My idea of spirituality and
the way I like to practice it
is to bring it down
into the earth.
Let's bring the stuff in the
clouds down into the earth.
And there's some really
challenging parts
of a spiritual awakening.
There is growing pains with it.
We're facing
generational traumas--
>> NOORY: Were
you on mushrooms--
>> COLÓN: No, no.
In fact, I don't really take
mushrooms that much anymore.
I don't really engage
with the medicine as much,
and it's here and there.
Now, I create from a
place that I don't really
need the mushrooms to tell me
what to create or how to create.
It's reconnected me to
my creative potential.
But that video,
it was an attempt
of me bringing light to the
spiritual awakening process.
>> NOORY: Who were
you trying to talk to?
>> COLÓN: Myself.
Myself.
I was trying to just laugh at
myself and all the absurdities
and--
>> NOORY: Not the spirit world?
>> COLÓN: No, not
the spirit world.
Putting it out on
the internet, it's
basically talking to a
spirit world of some sort.
I mean, I shared
it with the world.
And a lot of the world ended up
relating to it, which was great.
I love bringing humor
and fun and play
to the spiritual experience.
I think it's very important.
It's needed.
There's a sacredness to
it, but there's also play.
>> NOORY: Well, you
made another video,
not quite like the first one,
about following some creative
impulses and how it puts you
into a very spiritual alignment.
>> COLÓN: Yeah.
>> Some mornings you wake up and
you just got to paint a wall.
And not for any reason in
particular, other than there's
this creative impulse
to paint a wall.
I don't know why I'm
doing this right now,
but I felt like I was called to.
And these creative
impulses, if we follow them,
lead to one thing and another,
and another, and another,
and boom, now we're vibrating.
Now we're in alignment with
our creative potential.
And this is the catalyst.
These are the sparks.
Inspiration is just this
beautiful, disembodied power
that if we ignore
it, it just goes
to the next host and the
next host and the next host,
and you slowly crumble into
your, I could have done this,
I should have done this,
why didn't I do this?
All you got to do is do it,
and then watch what happens.
This is by no
means finished yet,
but it's fun to
document the process.
Anyways, here's how
it looks finished.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> NOORY: It looks
like a massive Picasso.
>> COLÓN: I love it.
>> NOORY: Good job.
>> COLÓN: Yeah, I mean, all
my paintings, really, it's--
I just make a random line, and
from it, I'll extract something.
I love making mistakes.
Or, as Bob Ross calls
happy accidents.
And that, to me, is just the
epitome of there's an impulse.
I want to paint something.
I don't want to
follow the rules.
I'm not going to paint the
wall like everybody else paints
their wall.
Why not doodle on this and
why not break the rules.
And that is what
creativity is to me.
It's really wonderful.
It's innovative and it's fun.
I had a great time
painting that one.
>> NOORY: How many hits do you
get on social with something
like that?
>> COLÓN: I mean, social media
is an interesting space to be
in because some things
land, some things don't.
Some things get pushed up in
the algorithm, some things--
it's hard to really
determine how people view it.
I create for me and
I create for me.
And I put it in the world
and you happen to like it,
you happen to not.
>> NOORY: You dabble with
astrology and tarot, don't you?
>> COLÓN: Yes, I do.
>> NOORY: Tell me what you
like about both of those.
>> COLÓN: They're amazing
tools to get to know yourself
and to get to know
the world around you.
It's a tool for self-inquiry.
Astrology came into
my life at a moment
where I really
didn't know myself.
And I was looking for
something outside of the Bible,
outside of mainstream religion,
to really ground and--
>> NOORY: You needed something.
>> COLÓN: I needed something.
I needed some language.
And there's so many ways
to get to know yourself,
you know, there's astrology,
there's human design,
there's the Pottermore,
Harry Potter test.
Like if you're a Gryffindor,
Ravenclaw, whatever it is.
There's lots of ways to
get to know yourself.
Astrology is one of
those, I love the stars.
The stars are so
beautiful to me.
And it kind of brings the
cosmic into the ground.
It's a beautiful tool kit to get
to know yourself in the world.
>> NOORY:
Astrologically speaking,
someone like me who is a
Gemini, what does that tell you?
>> COLÓN: Well, Gemini energy,
Gemini is the young Air sign.
They're very great
at conversation.
That's why having a show
like yours, it really tracks.
And they thrive on
those connections.
They bring light to
conversation as well.
But there's also a very private
side to the Gemini energy
that's not out and
about in the world.
There is a headspace.
There's another conversation
happening in the head,
in the mind that
maybe a lot of people
don't necessarily know about.
So Geminis are typically seen
as being like two people.
Some people say
they're two-faced.
I'm like, no, I'm
not going to tap
into that toxic
astrological rhetoric.
>> NOORY: No, no,
no, you're not.
Yes, I am.
>> COLÓN: But yeah,
Gemini energy has--
they can adapt to a
space in beautiful ways.
They know how to read a room
and tap into it in a way
that they still feel
authentic within that space.
And for some people, that's
scary because they're like,
I see you in this
space and you're
a little different, in this
space you're a little different.
It's like, no, you're just
adapting, you're just vibing.
>> NOORY: That's a good point.
Now, where does
tarot fit into this?
>> COLÓN: So tarot is
all about storytelling.
It's been around for centuries.
It's been around for a while.
And tarot is basically
taking a lot of the Carl Jung
archetypal language and
bringing it into cards.
And with those cards, you pull
them out, and you look at them,
and you can tell a story
about your experience.
You can tell a story about
somebody else's experience,
and there's some universal
truths in the cards.
I like to use them basically
as like a journaling prompt.
>> NOORY: Who pulls the cards?
You, Daníel, as the
reader, or the person
who's getting the reading?
>> COLÓN: I typically
pull the cards myself.
Like there's always a
grounding practice where
we just sit and we ground.
We connect energetically
to one another,
and then I'll just
entrust the universe
to allow whatever cards are
meant to pop out to pop out.
And from that, we tell a story.
>> NOORY: And it's a
great story indeed.
>> COLÓN: Yeah, absolutely.
It's jam packed with wisdom.
Each of the cards, they
exemplify a specific moment
in the spiritual experience.
And I think we can pull a lot
of meaning from those symbols.
>> NOORY: What do you recommend
for people who want to use
astrology or tarot for
their daily guidance?
>> COLÓN: Well, if you're going
to go with the tarot route,
I would recommend just
pulling a card a day.
That's how I really
started years ago.
Just like pulling a random
card every single day,
meditating on it,
journaling about it,
and really just
seeing what the card
has to say about your
own personal experience.
If you're curious
about astrology,
start low and go slow.
There's a lot of astrological
wisdom out there.
You're way more
than just a Gemini.
You also have a rising sign.
You also have a moon sign.
You also have a mercury sign.
There's also houses in the
astrological system as well.
So there's a lot of
information out there.
If you're really wanting to
just start off in astrology,
know your rising sign, know your
sun sign, know your moon sign,
and start there.
From there, you can expand your
knowledge a little bit more.
>> NOORY: I'm amazed you're
not into numerology, too.
>> COLÓN: Numerology
is a whole other force.
Do you know your
life path number?
>> NOORY: 7.
>> COLÓN: You're a 7?
I'm 4.
So really all about creating
the structure, the four walls.
>> NOORY: I was born
on a 4, by the way.
It's a lucky number for me.
>> COLÓN: Hey, that's great.
That's really, really great.
>> NOORY: June 4.
>> COLÓN: June 4.
For April 17 over
here, so I do have a 4.
>> NOORY: Super.
Now, what about the
law of attraction?
Where does that fit into this?
>> COLÓN: Law of attraction
is where it's at.
>> NOORY: And what is
the law of attraction?
>> COLÓN: What is the
law of attraction?
The law of attraction
is a universal law.
And if you look up the universal
laws, there's many of them,
actually.
Law of attraction
is just one of them.
There's "The Kybalion," which
is a beautiful book that has all
the laws put in there.
But law of attraction
is basically the idea
that we're creating reality with
our thoughts, with our feelings.
We're creating reality
through our actions,
through our impulses.
And if you tap into the
vibration of that intentionally,
you can become a masterful
creator of your own reality.
And law of attraction
really came into my life
when I was really looking to
radically shift it from the one
that I was living in.
>> NOORY: Well, we have proof
of a video that you made about
the law of attraction that went
viral again on social media
using the audio
of Abraham-Hicks.
Let's take a look.
>> So when people say,
what are you doing?
You say, things that please me.
And they say, toward what end?
And you say, pleasure.
And they say, but really,
what are you working on?
And you say, having a good time.
And I say, but what do
you hope to accomplish?
And you say, living
happily ever after.
And they say, but what do you
want to leave as your legacy.
And you say, I was a happy one.
And they say, but what is the
mark that you want to leave?
Life is joyous.
But what is the value that
you see in contributing
to this time-space reality?
I'm joyful.
But what do you
hope to accomplish?
Being happy.
It's hard for people to wrap
their thoughts around that,
and yet that's what all of
existence is about, you see.
>> NOORY: I can see how
you have a following.
>> COLÓN: How so?
>> NOORY: It's intriguing.
>> COLÓN: Yeah.
>> NOORY: You're very creative.
>> COLÓN: Absolutely.
I mean, as a queer
person, growing up
around lip-syncing
and drag queens,
there's something very radical
about drag queens and the song
choices that they bring to
life through lip-syncing.
So I thought of like, I'm like a
spiritual drag queen, basically.
I'll bring some real deep
wisdom, and that's entertaining,
and hopefully you chew on it
and you get something from it.
So, yeah.
>> NOORY: What does the law of
attraction mean to your life?
>> COLÓN: There's
responsibility.
We have a responsibility
here in the way
that we show up in this world.
And the way that we show up in
this world has consequences.
They can have positive
consequences or negative ones.
So if you're trying
to embody and create
a life where you're just
happy and you're just enjoying
yourself, why wait
for things to come
to you to enjoy and be happy?
If you already are in the
vibration of happiness
and enjoyment, you will attract
more happiness and enjoyment.
So for me, it's all about
responsibility and power
and accountability
in that and play.
Understanding that negative
things will happen,
negative things will
show up in your life,
but you have so much power
in the way you transmute
that energy into
something beautiful,
into something pleasurable, into
whatever it is that you desire.
>> NOORY: It looks like the
creating of your artwork that we
saw in the previous
video changed your life.
>> COLÓN: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> NOORY: What has
it done to you?
>> COLÓN: It's given me freedom.
It's given me freedom to
explore, to be a creative being.
We're all creative beings.
Every single one of us
is a creative being.
And many of us, we get
out of the school system
and we forget about
our imagination.
We forget to play.
So for me, it's given me
this space of like, wow,
I can literally
do whatever I want
and I can enjoy myself
and be successful at it.
All that really matters
is that I enjoy myself.
So the freedom of
just creative thinking
and innovative
thinking, that to me
is way more exciting than
playing into the status quo,
playing into those
systems that they
felt very constricting to me.
>> NOORY: There are big
astrological events, Daníel.
One of them is Pluto
moving into Aquarius.
What does that mean?
>> COLÓN: Oh my gosh.
Pluto in Aquarius is
definitely going to be
and already is one of
those transits that's
going to rock our
world and really change
the landscape of how we
connect to one another.
>> NOORY: How so?
>> COLÓN: So in order for us
to really dive deep into this,
we must understand what
Pluto means symbolically.
So Pluto is the planet of death
and rebirth and transformation.
Aquarius is a sign that's
all about innovation.
They're the humanitarian
of the zodiac.
They're all about
looking on the outside
and looking in and
creating structures,
innovating structures.
So when the planet of
rebirth and transformation
enters the sign of
innovation, which is Aquarius,
it's going to create some
tension, some friction.
And what we're seeing
in the world already,
like we're already
kind of seeing we're--
>> NOORY: Too much.
>> COLÓN: Exactly.
I mean, there's war,
there's bloodshed.
It's a very contrasty
world right now.
And one could look at Pluto
and Aquarius and be scared.
There's change.
It's imminent and
change is necessary.
But I look at this moment
and I can't help but think,
this is going to be one of
the most innovative time
periods of our lives.
>> NOORY: How long will it last.
>> COLÓN: So we're looking at
this transit lasting until 2044.
So we got a few decades of this.
I think it's going to bring
us closer to one another.
It's going to create
collective liberation.
That's what this transit is all
about, collective liberation,
communal love.
We're seeing a lot of the themes
from the Civil Rights movement
coming into play, which
if you know of "Hair"
and "The Dawning of the Age of
Aquarius," that whole song like,
yeah, we're reconnecting
to something here.
We're starting to see like,
hold on, what are these systems?
Are they actually supporting us?
And how can we innovatively
create new systems
that support the collective
in a way where they feel
nurtured, held,
loved, and cared for?
>> NOORY: 2044, ironically, is
the next major solar eclipse.
>> COLÓN: Oh my gosh.
>> NOORY: How does
that fit into this?
>> COLÓN: I mean, eclipses
are all about the shadow.
Eclipses are all about unveiling
those hidden truths that we may
tuck away in boxes and corners.
And I think it's time for
us to confront those demons.
And the beauty of all of
this, I think, for me,
is when we confront
these demons,
we can recognize those
demons in other people.
And the empathy
that that brings.
That to me is love
and accepting.
Like, hold on, why are we
really fighting each other?
My demons are your demons.
We share the same anger.
We share the same grief.
We share the same traumas.
Why are we fighting each other?
Why are we doing this
to one another here?
>> NOORY: It's the song,
"The Dawning of Aquarius,"
was in the '70s.
>> COLÓN: Yes.
>> NOORY: Is it still here
or is this coming back?
>> COLÓN: It's coming back.
If you look up "The
Age of Aquarius,"
it's really hard to
determine an actual date.
Even if you were
to hear the song,
"when the moon is in the seventh
house and Jupiter aligns with
Mars," like that's not really
what the Age of Aquarius is.
Age of Aquarius is an energy.
Age of Aquarius is a feeling.
So it's not an actual
moment in time.
But considering that Pluto in
Aquarius is happening right now,
it's a really major
transit, I would say.
Like, yeah, right
now it really does
feel like the Age of Aquarius.
This really does feel
like an innovative time.
>> NOORY: It keeps dawning.
>> COLÓN: It keeps dawning.
It will never end, I
think, until we finally
realize, wow, loving each
other, caring for one another.
That type of love is very
special and important.
>> NOORY: How does
consciousness fit into this?
>> COLÓN: In what way?
What do you mean?
>> NOORY: I mean, does
it apply to any of this?
>> COLÓN:
Consciousness, I mean--
>> NOORY: Does it affect it?
>> COLÓN: Absolutely.
The collective consciousness is
going to be affected by this.
In fact, we brought this
time period on ourselves,
and I think that's one of the
beautiful things about law
of attraction, is that
thoughts create reality.
Emotion creates reality.
And before the pandemic, so
many of the conversations I
was having with friends of
like-- it was disappointment
of like, wow, it's like
such a struggle right now,
and what are we really
doing with our lives?
What are we really working for?
And through those
moments in which
we're explaining what we
don't want in this world,
the universe is literally
bringing the challenges,
the obstacles that
we have to get over
in order for us to actually
attain what we do want.
So we are contributing to
the collective consciousness.
It will-- what we experience
with Pluto in Aquarius
is going to be a
consciousness shift coming
from Pluto in Capricorn, which
is all about protection of self
and protection of one's values.
And now, it's time
to really dissolve
those values a bit more.
Aquarius dissolves
those boundaries,
dissolves those values so that
we can create a planet where
we can live as one.
>> NOORY: You did a little
channeling about a song about
the revolution that
Pluto in Aquarius brings.
>> COLÓN: Yeah.
>> If I were a rich man, I'd
give it all to the world.
If I were a poor man, I'd
raise every boy and girl.
Heal me once.
Heal me twice.
Cross my spirit.
Hope to die.
If I were a soldier, I'd
lay all my weapons down.
If I were the people, I'd
thread shiny flower crowns.
Claim our blood, give back land,
watch in silence, hand in hand.
Revolution.
And the thousand,
thousand, thousand,
thousand tiny little lives, and
the rich folk getting richer,
taking pictures of their lives.
We may never really know
until it's over, till we die.
Mother Earth is
standing, watching,
stifling her bitter cry.
She sings revolution.
Revolution.
If I were a rich man, I'd
give it all to the world.
If I were a poor man, I'd
raise every boy and girl.
Heal me once.
Heal me twice.
Cross my spirit.
Hope to die.
>> NOORY: You ever thought about
going on "America's Got Talent."
>> COLÓN: I don't know.
I'd be down.
Sure, America's Got
Talent, what's up?
>> NOORY: You might win.
>> COLÓN: Oh my gosh.
That is Pluto in Aquarius.
That is the Pluto
in Aquarius energy,
like we're all feeling it.
We're all feeling it,
like it's time for change.
And unfortunately, change has to
come with some of these darker
aspects.
But from the ashes, we will
rebuild again and again
and again.
And that's been consciousness.
That is consciousness.
>> NOORY: And how much does
astrology play in that role?
>> COLÓN: Astrology plays
a role in that as much
as you're willing to let
astrology influence it,
as long as you're willing--
whatever you give
astrology to, it can--
I choose to see astrology
as like, cool, awesome.
I'm going to strap on my boots
and I'm going to do the work.
Whether that happens
consciously or unconsciously,
it's really all
dependent on you.
This change is going to
happen in one way or another.
I think astrology, it
gives me hope and at least
an awareness about it,
versus not really being aware
of the energetic implications
of what's happening in the world
right now.
Instead of looking at the news
and being so like triggered
by it, I can look to astrology
and I can be like, cool,
there's something
cosmic happening here.
There's a collective
shift happening here.
And I can choose to be an
innovator with this energy,
or I can continue
beating myself up
because I don't know what to do.
I choose to do something.
And that's literally the
foundation of color me crazy,
color we crazy, from me to we.
It starts from the self and it
ripples out into the collective,
it ripples out to all of us.
>> NOORY: Can astrology
help make you escape?
>> COLÓN: Absolutely.
Astrology, on the flip side,
can also be a scapegoat.
We see it with mercury
retrograde, for instance.
Everybody is like, gosh, mercury
retrograde, I can't do it.
And it's like, no,
astrology is not an excuse.
Astrology is not a crutch.
It ultimately is
a system of wisdom
for you to claim your power.
It's a source to really
feel good about oneself.
And I welcome mercury
retrograde now.
I'm not like dreading it at all.
I'm just like, great.
You're telling me
I get to pause,
reflect, review, and really
take my time in communicating?
Not a problem.
You're telling me I need to
practice my patience right now.
That's what we need to
do right now, Astrology?
Great.
Not a problem.
But people can
escape into astrology
and it can be used
in a dogmatic way.
I'm sure there are probably
some astrologers out there who
look at Pluto and Aquarius.
They're like, these
are the end of times.
And I'm like, these are
the end of something.
This is the end of something.
>> NOORY: And it's also
the beginning of something.
>> COLÓN: Absolutely.
There it is right there.
But it's the
beginning of so much.
It's an excitingly
transformational time
to be alive right now.
And when I was younger
and I would learn about
the '60s movement and what
was happening during that era,
I was like, that looks so
challenging but how it brought
people together, it inspired me.
And it's happening literally
right here, right now.
>> NOORY: Live.
>> COLÓN: Yeah, in the flesh.
>> NOORY: What's the future of
spirituality in terms of where
it's going?
>> COLÓN: Who knows?
I'm looking forward
to spirituality
that is definitely more
grounded, more in the earth.
I think there's a lot
of spirituality that
is very connected to the
ethereal space, and I'm like,
I'm all for it.
How you choose to practice your
spirituality, it's amazing.
It's great.
But there's something happening
right here, right now in the 3D.
And the 3D is what helps us
connect to the 4D, the 5D,
to all of it.
So I'm looking forward
to a spirituality that's
more grounded, more connected,
and these connections
with you and I.
Everybody wants
to astral project.
Everybody wants to
connect to spirit guides.
And I'm like, that's
amazing and all.
But you're missing
everything else.
You're missing what you
came into this world for.
You came for this
experience, we all did.
We asked for this,
human experience.
And this is the gift.
This is it.
I like to call myself an Earth
tour guide, just like, let's
be here now.
Let's enjoy what we have
of this Earth because we're
seeing she's crying.
She's crying out to us.
And I think it's important for
us to connect back with her.
>> NOORY: Have you
ever tried ayahuasca?
>> COLÓN: I haven't
tried ayahuasca.
Not that I'm afraid
of it or anything.
When it presents
itself to me, sure.
If I feel aligned
with it, great.
Psychedelics are
a beautiful tool,
but one could escape with
psychedelics as well.
>> NOORY: You may not come back.
>> COLÓN: You may not come back.
You can have a psychotic break.
A lot of people make super
crazy, impulsive life decisions
from psychedelic experiences
that cause a lot of--
>> NOORY: So why do it?
>> COLÓN: I think people who
engage with psychedelics are
willing to take the risk.
I think what's lacking with
the psychedelic space is--
are these conversations of
like, hey, let's integrate this.
Just because the
medicine showed you this,
it doesn't mean that it is--
there is still a
hallucinogen-- it's still
a hallucinogen. So like,
let's really digest and see
what this really means.
I think, right now, people
do it because they're
looking for something deeper.
They're looking for something--
they've tried SSRIs,
they've tried therapy,
they've tried the
traditional way,
and they're looking
for rocket fuel.
And psychedelics could
absolutely be rocket fuel.
To which I say, tread
carefully, know your dose.
Dosage is everything.
You don't need to be
taking heroic doses.
Start with a mild dose,
start with the micro dose,
start with functional
mushrooms--
>> NOORY: Or none at all.
>> COLÓN: Or none at all, yeah.
And you can do all of
this work without it.
Absolutely.
If you have the right community,
if you have the right thing
to believe in,
because ultimately,
psychedelics can connect
us to meaning, again,
in a very deep way.
And I was talking with a friend,
a neighbor of mine who is just
so amazing, and he threw this
out into the conversation
and he was like, we're
experiencing a meaning crisis
in life right now.
People are looking for meaning.
People are not as connected to
religion as they were before.
So if you have
something to believe in,
if you have something
to believe in
that really resonates with
you, and that can be astrology,
that can be tarot, all
of this information
you can get from these
other spiritual tools, that
can be breathwork.
Breathwork is an amazing
transformational tool as well.
You don't need psychedelics,
but it's coming back.
There's a psychedelic
resurgence for sure.
I'm going to try my best
to have harm reduction
conversations with people
who ask me about it.
There are risks.
Definitely know what
you're getting into
and the environment
that you do it in,
the people who you do
it with, the support
that you have afterwards.
It's everything.
>> NOORY: Where do
you hope this leads?
>> COLÓN: I hope this all
leads to a happier, healthier,
more connected humanity.
I hope it leads to a space in
which we can look at each other
and see ourselves in
one another again.
And also, a world in which
we're connected to the Earth.
We're connected to creativity,
and not just consumption,
and that freedom.
Understanding that freedom,
it starts with the self
and it comes from the self.
It's not in the systems.
And it's not in the structures.
It's in ourselves.
And liberation
starts from within.
So that's what I'm
looking forward to.
>> NOORY: Daníel, where does
consciousness fit in with
creation?
>> COLÓN: Gosh,
creativity, consciousness.
I'm like, they're
one of the same.
We've all had ideas.
We've all thought of something.
And how many times have we've
had ideas that we've sat on
and all of a sudden, months
later, maybe years later,
we see somebody else who
has created the same thing?
Creativity is this
beautiful, disembodied energy
that it looks for a host and it
comes through with an impulse.
And the only thing that's
separating somebody
who manifests versus
somebody who doesn't is
that the manifestor listens
to impulse and acts on it.
They do it.
>> NOORY: So is there a future
of what you call conscious
content creation?
>> COLÓN: Yeah, it's happening.
It's the world that
I'm creating at least.
As far as content creation
goes, social media goes,
these platforms, they're
hardwired for consumption.
And I'm just like, if you're
going to be consuming something,
I want it to feel
enriching and soul-filling.
So I think we're
craving that as well.
We're craving content that
inspires, it plants seeds.
And that's what
this program does,
that's what Gaia does,
that's the future
that I hope to contribute to.
>> NOORY: Not only are you
an accomplished artist,
but you also recently created an
oracle deck, "Soul's Odyssey."
We've got a little
picture of that.
>> COLÓN: Yeah.
Look at it.
>> NOORY: Explain what
we're looking at there?
>> COLÓN: So I created
this Oracle deck called
the "Soul's Odyssey," And
it really came through
an experience where I said, I
already work with the cards.
Why not create my own cards?
Like, why not?
And I created 55 cards.
They're beautiful.
They're colorful.
I love colors, that's why
I go by Color Me Crazy.
And it basically takes you
through your soul's journey,
the spiritual awakening.
It starts with the dawn, that
initial phase of awakening.
Then the cards move through
the challenges, the challenges
that come with awakening.
Then it moves on to
the transformation
that comes from awakening.
Then the enlightenment
that comes
from it, and the culmination.
And then finally, we go back to
the dawn, the beginning of it
all again.
So it's this beautiful
spiritual journey, the circle,
or as my partner talks
about, this spiral
that circles all the way up.
We're coming back
around to things,
but we're always going
up and up and up and up.
And yeah, I have it here.
>> NOORY: Yeah, you
have a deck here.
>> COLÓN: Yeah, I sure do.
>> NOORY: Hold that up.
Daníel.
>> COLÓN: Yeah.
So we got the
Soul's Odyssey here.
>> NOORY: Take those
cards out of the deck.
>> COLÓN: Oh my gosh,
this is so exciting.
>> NOORY: Can you pull a card
for our audience and just tell
us something?
>> COLÓN: Absolutely.
Let's see what we got going on
here for the collective spirit
source creator.
All right, let's see what
we got going on here.
I'm just going to take
a second to ground.
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> COLÓN: Connecting to
divine source creator, God,
the universe.
Thank you for being here.
Thank you for being
present in this space.
Asking for your guidance,
asking for your wisdom.
Asking you to make me a
channel for whatever messages
you have for the
collective consciousness.
What do we need to
focus on right now?
What messages do you
have to offer, please?
And thank you, source.
I'm just going to give a
quick little shuffle here.
Yeah.
This is fun for me.
It's just like, this is fun.
>> NOORY: Great shuffle.
You look like you are a
blackjack dealer in Vegas.
>> COLÓN: I mean, I don't
have blackjack money, though.
Like, that'd be nice.
>> NOORY: Sell a few of
these cards, you will.
>> COLÓN: Yeah, absolutely.
Honestly, right here.
This is it.
This is the message
that we need right here.
I didn't even need to--
like, I saw it immediately.
I'm like, that's the card.
>> NOORY: And is that
the card you pulled?
>> COLÓN: It was felt, like
my whole center right here is
literally charged right now.
So this is alchemy.
And alchemy is what I think
we need to connect to the most
here, is this transmuting
anything into gold,
transmuting this
energy that we're in.
A lot of people can look
at the world right now
and they're seeing
the lower vibration.
They're like my god, it sucks.
This is so hard.
And the hopelessness,
the powerlessness
that comes from that.
And source right here
is saying, from this,
you can transmute gold.
From this, the
universe is literally
giving us all of the
tools, all of the things
necessary for us to innovate
from this, for us to truly make
something out of it.
This is a time for
creative thinking.
This is a time for innovation.
Pluto in Aquarius energy
is present here as well.
>> NOORY: Is that instantaneous?
>> COLÓN: I think the alchemist
doesn't become an alchemist
overnight.
The alchemist is tinkering and
trying things on again and again
and again and again.
Until finally, he gets it.
Until finally, he, she,
they, whoever, they get it.
And they're like,
whoa, I made the thing.
I was able to take this and
I was able to make gold.
But we don't see
the process of that.
A lot of what we get stuck
on, I think, so many of us,
is we tried it once, it didn't
work out, and then we give up.
And right here, the universe is
saying, keep going, keep going,
keep going no matter what.
>> NOORY: Where do
people get these cards?
>> COLÓN: So these cards,
you can find these cards
at my online shop,
colormecrazy.store.
>> NOORY: colormecrazy.store.
>> COLÓN: Yep.
You can find my
Oracle deck there.
The cards are beautiful.
They're so colorful.
I really poured a lot
of love into this deck.
And all of them
have affirmations.
Every single card comes with
a journaling prompt as well.
So when I pull cards for
myself, it's a sacred space.
It's a moment of reflection.
And I think this would be a
great way, a great catalyst
to start your days.
And just ask yourself questions,
give me an answer, God,
give me an answer, Creator.
That's what we're always asking
for, is like, give me something.
I feel like that's what
these cards can do for you.
>> NOORY: And why don't
you, as we wrap things up,
give us another song.
>> COLÓN: Another song?
>> NOORY: Yes.
Improvise for us.
>> COLÓN: Cool.
I got one song that's
been on my head.
I'm so glad you brought this up.
>> NOORY: Go for it.
>> COLÓN: It's this money mantra
song that I have, actually.
It's not even just money,
it's an abundance mantra
that I've been really
sitting with myself.
>> NOORY: You make us all
wealthy when you're done.
>> COLÓN: Here we go.
Here it goes.
I am rich in my mind
and my body and my soul.
I am rich with personality,
my talents are my gold.
I am rich, blessed be,
breathing in prosperity.
I am rich just like
the money tree.
Ching, ching, it flowed to me.
I am rich in my mind
and my body and my soul.
I'm rich with personality.
My talents are my gold.
I'm rich, blessed be,
breathing in prosperity.
I am rich.
It's like the money tree.
Ching, ching, it flowed to me.
>> NOORY: There's nothing
more for me to say.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[AUDIO LOGO]